README.md, before:

# Front End Development: Path Of The Ninja

Curated list of learning resources

**Path Of The Ninja**

| **Course Level** | **Ninja Level** | **Comments** |
| --------- | --------- | ------------ |
| General & Level 1 | | Mandatory basic knowledge for engineering
| Level 2 | | Front-end engineer core
| Level 3 | | Front-end devops, Code quality focus
| Level 4 | | Front-end architecture, Scalable front-end apps
| Level 5 | | Advanced visualisation specialisation
| Level 6 | | Modern technologies, Performance specialisation
| Level 7 | | Server-side JS, noSQL databases, Security specialisation


**General Topics**

| **#** | **Course Name** | **Type** | **Length** | **Topic** | **Source** | **Author** | **Release Date** | **Paid?** |
| ----- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 1 | [Design Patterns](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/patterns-library) | Video | 00:15:01 | Design Patterns | Pluralsight | Several | 09/09/2010 | Yes
| 2 | [Git Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/git-fundamentals) | Video |  01:51:00 | Version Control | Pluralsight | James Kovacs | 22/05/2010 | Yes

**Level 1**

| **#** | **Course Name** | **Type** | **Length** | **Topic** | **Source** | **Author** | **Release Date** | **Paid?** |
| ----- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 1 | [Front-end Web Development: Get Started](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/front-end-web-development-get-started) | Video | 03:47:00 | Front-end Basics | Pluralsight | Joe Eames | 23/04/2014 | Yes
| 2 | [Introduction to CSS](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/css-intro) | Video | 02:09:00 | CSS | Pluralsight | Scott Allen | 17/07/2011 | Yes
| 3 | [HTML Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/html-fundamentals) | Video | 02:13:00 | HTML | Pluralsight | Matt Milner | 17/05/2012 | Yes
| 4 | [HTML5 Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/html5-fundamentals-2e) | Video | 03:56:00 | HTML | Pluralsight | Craig Shoemaker | 08/08/2013 | Yes
| 5 | [Introduction to JS and jQuery](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/introduction-javascript-jquery) | Video | 03:34:00 | jQuery | Pluralsight | Karl Swedberg | 18/02/2013 | Yes
| 6 | [Javascript: The Good Parts](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/javascript-good-parts) | Video | 04:52:00 | Javascript | Pluralsight | Douglas Crockford | 18/02/2013 | Yes

**Level 2**

| **#** | **Course Name** | **Type** | **Length** | **Topic** | **Source** | **Author** | **Release Date** | **Paid?** |
| ----- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 1 | [Advanced Techniques in Javascript and jQuery](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/javascript-jquery-advanced-techniques) | Video | 03:16:00 | jQuery | Pluralsight | Kevin Murray | 14/11/2013 | Yes
| 2 | [Bootstrap 3](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/bootstrap-3) | Video | 03:50:00 | Bootstrap | Pluralsight | Shawn Wildermuth | 13/11/2013 | Yes
| 3 | [AngularJS: Get Started](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/angularjs-get-started) | Video | 02:56:00 | JS Frameworks | Pluralsight | Scott Allen | 05/06/2014 | Yes
| 4 | [AngularJS: In-Depth](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/angularjs-in-depth) | Video | 04:56:00 | JS Frameworks | Pluralsight | Lukas Ruebbelke | 18/11/2013 | Yes
| 5 | [A Better CSS: LESS and SASS](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/better-css) | Video | 01:56:00 | CSS Preprocessors | Pluralsight | Shawn Wildermuth | 04/03/2012 | Yes
| 6 | [CSS3: In-Depth](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/css3-in-depth) | Video | 06:10:00 | CSS | Pluralsight | Estelle Weyl | 18/02/2013 | Yes
| 7 | [Responsive Web Design](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/responsive-web-design) | Video | 04:31:00 | CSS | Pluralsight | Ben Callahan | 29/04/2013 | Yes
| 8 | [Underscore.js Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/underscore-fundamentals) | Video | 02:55:00 | JS Libraries | Pluralsight | Craig Shoemaker | 07/05/2013 | Yes
| 9 | [Backbone.js Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/backbone-fundamentals) | Video | 04:42:00 | JS Frameworks | Pluralsight | Liam McLennan | 04/09/2012 | Yes
| 10 | [React Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/react-fundamentals) | Video | 02:44:00 | JS Frameworks | Pluralsight | Liam McLennan | 19/03/2014 | Yes
| 11 | [React Lessons: React Fundamentals](https://egghead.io/series/react-fundamentals) | Video | 00:58:28 | JS Frameworks | Egghead | Joe Maddalone | N/A | No
| 12 | [jQuery In-Depth](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/jquery-in-depth) | Video | 03:35:00 | jQuery | Plurasight | Karl Swedberg | 18/02/2013 | Yes
| 13 | [JS.Next: ES6](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/js-next-es6) | Video | 05:24:00 | Javascript | Pluralsight | Aaron Frost | 06/04/2015 | Yes
| 14 | [React: How-to](https://github.com/petehunt/react-howto) | Guide | N/A | JS Frameworks | GitHub Repo | Pete Hunt | 17/02/2016 | No
| 15 | [React.js Fundamentals](http://courses.reactjsprogram.com/courses/reactjsfundamentals) | Video, Text, Quiz | N/A | JS Frameworks | ReactJS Program | Tyler McGinnis | 01/03/2016 | No

**Level 3**

| **#** | **Course Name** | **Type** | **Length** | **Topic** | **Source** | **Author** | **Release Date** | **Paid?** |
| ----- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 1 | [Build Process, Workflows and Tooling With Grunt.js and Beyond](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/build-process-workflows-tooling-gruntjs) | Video | 05:46:00 | JS Fundamentals | Pluralsight | David Mosher | 20/08/2014 | Yes
| 2 | [Hardcore Functional Programming in Javascript](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/hardcore-functional-programming-javascript) | Video | 06:03:00 | Advanced Javascript | Pluralsight | Brain Lonsdorf | 08/04/2015 | Yes
| 3 | [NPM Playbook](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/npm-playbook) | Video | 00:58:13 | JS Tooling | Pluralsight | Joe Eames | 11/12/2015 | Yes
| 4 | [React Testing Cookbook](https://egghead.io/series/react-testing-cookbook) | Video | 00:38:46 | Testing | Pluralsight | Trevor D. Miller | N/A | Partially
| 5 | [Getting Started with Redux](https://egghead.io/series/getting-started-with-redux) | Video | 02:01:25 | Unidirectional Data Flow | Egghead | Dan Abramov | N/A | No
| 6 | [Webpack: How-to](https://github.com/petehunt/webpack-howto) | Guide | N/A | JS Tooling | GitHub Repo | Pete Hunt | 09/02/2016 | No
| 7 | [Building a Realtime Web Application with Meteor.js](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/meteorjs-web-application) | Video | 03:26:00 | MeteorJS | Pluralsight | Rob Conery | 14/07/2015 | Yes
| 8 | [Discover Meteor](https://www.discovermeteor.com/) | eBook | 14 Chapters | MeteorJS | Discover Meteor | Tom Coleman & Sacha Greif | 21/10/2015 | Yes
| 9 | [Mastering Meteor](https://mastering.meteorjs.club/) | Video | 08:00:00 | MeteorJS | MeteorClub | Josh Owens | N/A | Yes
| 10 | [Meteor For Everyone](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLnpHn493BHECNl9I8gwos-hEfFrer7TV) | Video | 02:46:52 | MeteorJS | LevelUpTuts | Scott Tolinski | 22/11/2015 | No
| 11 | [Intermediate Meteor](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLnpHn493BHFYZUSK62aVycgcAouqBt7V) | Video | 03:19:55 | MeteorJS | LevelUpTuts | Scott Tolinkski | 16/12/2015 | No
| 12 | [Introduction to Meteor.js Development](https://www.coursera.org/learn/meteor-development) | Course | 4 Weeks | MeteorJS | Coursera | Dr Matthew Yee-King | Recurring MOOC | No (Yes with certificate)
| 13 | [Modern React with Redux](https://www.udemy.com/react-redux/) | Video | 10:30:00 | JS Frameworks | Udemy | Stephen Grider | N/A | Yes

**Level 4**

| **#** | **Course Name** | **Type** | **Length** | **Topic** | **Source** | **Author** | **Release Date** | **Paid?** |
| ----- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 1 | [AngularJS in Patterns](https://github.com/mgechev/angularjs-in-patterns) | Guide | N/A | Design Patterns | GitHub Repo | Minko Gechev | 20/12/2015 | No
| 2 | [React: Flux Architecture (ES6)](https://egghead.io/series/react-flux-architecture-es6) | Video | 00:49:42 | Unidirectional Data Flow | Egghead | Joe Maddalone | N/A | No
| 3 | [Introduction to Reactive Programming](https://egghead.io/series/introduction-to-reactive-programming) | Video | 00:50:55 | Reactive Programming | Egghead | André Staltz | N/A | Yes
| 4 | [Cycle.js Fundamentals](https://egghead.io/series/cycle-js-fundamentals) | Video | 01:37:37 | Reactive Programming | Egghead | André Staltz | N/A | No
| 5 | [Mantra: An Application Architecture for MeteorJS](https://kadirahq.github.io/mantra/) | Guide | N/A | MeteorJS Architecture | KadiraHQ | N/A | 18/02/2016 | No
| 6 | [BulletProof Meteor](https://bulletproofmeteor.com/) | Guide | N/A | MeteorJS Performance & Architecture | KadiraHQ | N/A | N/A | No

**Level 5**

*TODO*

**Level 6**

*TODO*

**Level 7**

*TODO*

# Contributing

Please see CONTRIBUTING.md file.

Commit message:

Adding BEM with Sass to 4th level

README.md, after:

# Front End Development: Path Of The Ninja

Curated list of learning resources

**Path Of The Ninja**

| **Course Level** | **Ninja Level** | **Comments** |
| --------- | --------- | ------------ |
| General & Level 1 | | Mandatory basic knowledge for engineering
| Level 2 | | Front-end engineer core
| Level 3 | | Front-end devops, Code quality focus
| Level 4 | | Front-end architecture, Scalable front-end apps
| Level 5 | | Advanced visualisation specialisation
| Level 6 | | Modern technologies, Performance specialisation
| Level 7 | | Server-side JS, noSQL databases, Security specialisation


**General Topics**

| **#** | **Course Name** | **Type** | **Length** | **Topic** | **Source** | **Author** | **Release Date** | **Paid?** |
| ----- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 1 | [Design Patterns](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/patterns-library) | Video | 00:15:01 | Design Patterns | Pluralsight | Several | 09/09/2010 | Yes
| 2 | [Git Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/git-fundamentals) | Video |  01:51:00 | Version Control | Pluralsight | James Kovacs | 22/05/2010 | Yes

**Level 1**

| **#** | **Course Name** | **Type** | **Length** | **Topic** | **Source** | **Author** | **Release Date** | **Paid?** |
| ----- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 1 | [Front-end Web Development: Get Started](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/front-end-web-development-get-started) | Video | 03:47:00 | Front-end Basics | Pluralsight | Joe Eames | 23/04/2014 | Yes
| 2 | [Introduction to CSS](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/css-intro) | Video | 02:09:00 | CSS | Pluralsight | Scott Allen | 17/07/2011 | Yes
| 3 | [HTML Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/html-fundamentals) | Video | 02:13:00 | HTML | Pluralsight | Matt Milner | 17/05/2012 | Yes
| 4 | [HTML5 Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/html5-fundamentals-2e) | Video | 03:56:00 | HTML | Pluralsight | Craig Shoemaker | 08/08/2013 | Yes
| 5 | [Introduction to JS and jQuery](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/introduction-javascript-jquery) | Video | 03:34:00 | jQuery | Pluralsight | Karl Swedberg | 18/02/2013 | Yes
| 6 | [Javascript: The Good Parts](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/javascript-good-parts) | Video | 04:52:00 | Javascript | Pluralsight | Douglas Crockford | 18/02/2013 | Yes

**Level 2**

| **#** | **Course Name** | **Type** | **Length** | **Topic** | **Source** | **Author** | **Release Date** | **Paid?** |
| ----- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 1 | [Advanced Techniques in Javascript and jQuery](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/javascript-jquery-advanced-techniques) | Video | 03:16:00 | jQuery | Pluralsight | Kevin Murray | 14/11/2013 | Yes
| 2 | [Bootstrap 3](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/bootstrap-3) | Video | 03:50:00 | Bootstrap | Pluralsight | Shawn Wildermuth | 13/11/2013 | Yes
| 3 | [AngularJS: Get Started](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/angularjs-get-started) | Video | 02:56:00 | JS Frameworks | Pluralsight | Scott Allen | 05/06/2014 | Yes
| 4 | [AngularJS: In-Depth](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/angularjs-in-depth) | Video | 04:56:00 | JS Frameworks | Pluralsight | Lukas Ruebbelke | 18/11/2013 | Yes
| 5 | [A Better CSS: LESS and SASS](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/better-css) | Video | 01:56:00 | CSS Preprocessors | Pluralsight | Shawn Wildermuth | 04/03/2012 | Yes
| 6 | [CSS3: In-Depth](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/css3-in-depth) | Video | 06:10:00 | CSS | Pluralsight | Estelle Weyl | 18/02/2013 | Yes
| 7 | [Responsive Web Design](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/responsive-web-design) | Video | 04:31:00 | CSS | Pluralsight | Ben Callahan | 29/04/2013 | Yes
| 8 | [Underscore.js Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/underscore-fundamentals) | Video | 02:55:00 | JS Libraries | Pluralsight | Craig Shoemaker | 07/05/2013 | Yes
| 9 | [Backbone.js Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/backbone-fundamentals) | Video | 04:42:00 | JS Frameworks | Pluralsight | Liam McLennan | 04/09/2012 | Yes
| 10 | [React Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/react-fundamentals) | Video | 02:44:00 | JS Frameworks | Pluralsight | Liam McLennan | 19/03/2014 | Yes
| 11 | [React Lessons: React Fundamentals](https://egghead.io/series/react-fundamentals) | Video | 00:58:28 | JS Frameworks | Egghead | Joe Maddalone | N/A | No
| 12 | [jQuery In-Depth](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/jquery-in-depth) | Video | 03:35:00 | jQuery | Plurasight | Karl Swedberg | 18/02/2013 | Yes
| 13 | [JS.Next: ES6](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/js-next-es6) | Video | 05:24:00 | Javascript | Pluralsight | Aaron Frost | 06/04/2015 | Yes
| 14 | [React: How-to](https://github.com/petehunt/react-howto) | Guide | N/A | JS Frameworks | GitHub Repo | Pete Hunt | 17/02/2016 | No
| 15 | [React.js Fundamentals](http://courses.reactjsprogram.com/courses/reactjsfundamentals) | Video, Text, Quiz | N/A | JS Frameworks | ReactJS Program | Tyler McGinnis | 01/03/2016 | No

**Level 3**

| **#** | **Course Name** | **Type** | **Length** | **Topic** | **Source** | **Author** | **Release Date** | **Paid?** |
| ----- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 1 | [Build Process, Workflows and Tooling With Grunt.js and Beyond](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/build-process-workflows-tooling-gruntjs) | Video | 05:46:00 | JS Fundamentals | Pluralsight | David Mosher | 20/08/2014 | Yes
| 2 | [Hardcore Functional Programming in Javascript](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/hardcore-functional-programming-javascript) | Video | 06:03:00 | Advanced Javascript | Pluralsight | Brain Lonsdorf | 08/04/2015 | Yes
| 3 | [NPM Playbook](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/npm-playbook) | Video | 00:58:13 | JS Tooling | Pluralsight | Joe Eames | 11/12/2015 | Yes
| 4 | [React Testing Cookbook](https://egghead.io/series/react-testing-cookbook) | Video | 00:38:46 | Testing | Pluralsight | Trevor D. Miller | N/A | Partially
| 5 | [Getting Started with Redux](https://egghead.io/series/getting-started-with-redux) | Video | 02:01:25 | Unidirectional Data Flow | Egghead | Dan Abramov | N/A | No
| 6 | [Webpack: How-to](https://github.com/petehunt/webpack-howto) | Guide | N/A | JS Tooling | GitHub Repo | Pete Hunt | 09/02/2016 | No
| 7 | [Building a Realtime Web Application with Meteor.js](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/meteorjs-web-application) | Video | 03:26:00 | MeteorJS | Pluralsight | Rob Conery | 14/07/2015 | Yes
| 8 | [Discover Meteor](https://www.discovermeteor.com/) | eBook | 14 Chapters | MeteorJS | Discover Meteor | Tom Coleman & Sacha Greif | 21/10/2015 | Yes
| 9 | [Mastering Meteor](https://mastering.meteorjs.club/) | Video | 08:00:00 | MeteorJS | MeteorClub | Josh Owens | N/A | Yes
| 10 | [Meteor For Everyone](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLnpHn493BHECNl9I8gwos-hEfFrer7TV) | Video | 02:46:52 | MeteorJS | LevelUpTuts | Scott Tolinski | 22/11/2015 | No
| 11 | [Intermediate Meteor](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLnpHn493BHFYZUSK62aVycgcAouqBt7V) | Video | 03:19:55 | MeteorJS | LevelUpTuts | Scott Tolinkski | 16/12/2015 | No
| 12 | [Introduction to Meteor.js Development](https://www.coursera.org/learn/meteor-development) | Course | 4 Weeks | MeteorJS | Coursera | Dr Matthew Yee-King | Recurring MOOC | No (Yes with certificate)
| 13 | [Modern React with Redux](https://www.udemy.com/react-redux/) | Video | 10:30:00 | JS Frameworks | Udemy | Stephen Grider | N/A | Yes

**Level 4**

| **#** | **Course Name** | **Type** | **Length** | **Topic** | **Source** | **Author** | **Release Date** | **Paid?** |
| ----- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 1 | [AngularJS in Patterns](https://github.com/mgechev/angularjs-in-patterns) | Guide | N/A | Design Patterns | GitHub Repo | Minko Gechev | 20/12/2015 | No
| 2 | [React: Flux Architecture (ES6)](https://egghead.io/series/react-flux-architecture-es6) | Video | 00:49:42 | Unidirectional Data Flow | Egghead | Joe Maddalone | N/A | No
| 3 | [Introduction to Reactive Programming](https://egghead.io/series/introduction-to-reactive-programming) | Video | 00:50:55 | Reactive Programming | Egghead | André Staltz | N/A | Yes
| 4 | [Cycle.js Fundamentals](https://egghead.io/series/cycle-js-fundamentals) | Video | 01:37:37 | Reactive Programming | Egghead | André Staltz | N/A | No
| 5 | [Mantra: An Application Architecture for MeteorJS](https://kadirahq.github.io/mantra/) | Guide | N/A | MeteorJS Architecture | KadiraHQ | N/A | 18/02/2016 | No
| 6 | [BulletProof Meteor](https://bulletproofmeteor.com/) | Guide | N/A | MeteorJS Performance & Architecture | KadiraHQ | N/A | N/A | No
| 7 | [BEM with Sass](http://atozcss.com/video/beginner/bem-with-sass/?wkey=bXNlcmlub0BkZWxvaXR0ZS5jby51aw==&foreign_data=mailchimp_campaign_id%3A40d1996946) | Video | 00:08:19 | BEM methodology with Sass and best practices | A to Z Css | @atozcss | 15/03/2016 | No

**Level 5**

*TODO*

**Level 6**

*TODO*

**Level 7**

*TODO*

# Contributing

Please see CONTRIBUTING.md file.
